{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil Courier New;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\b\f0\fs28\lang1033 # Case-Study\par
\b0\fs22 For best view please use rich text format instead of plain text.\par
\par
\b\fs28 # Researching Arize - An LLM Observability platofrm\par
\par
## Overview and Origin\b0\par
\fs22\par
\b\fs26 *Company? \b0\fs22 Arize\par
(Source: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://arize.com }}{\fldrslt{https://arize.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
\par
\b\fs24 * \fs26 When was the company incorporated? \b0\fs22 2020\par
(Source: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.cbinsights.com/company/arize-ai }}{\fldrslt{https://www.cbinsights.com/company/arize-ai\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
\par
\b\fs26 * Who are the founders of the company?\b0\fs22\par
Jason Lopatecki and Aparna Dhinakaran\par
(Source: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://arize.com/about-company/ }}{\fldrslt{https://arize.com/about-company/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
\par
\b\fs26 * How did the idea for the company (or project) come about?\b0\fs22\par
It was created when both co-founders found a common goal in the issues with trouble shooting real world LLM issues while using cumbersome AI tools in addition to making sense of AI performance. So they started created the Arize platform to really simplify LLM observability to incorporate AI to solve this issue through  LLM evaluation  platform that makes sense of the complex world of LLM\rquote s.\par
(Source: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://arize.com/about-company/ }}{\fldrslt{https://arize.com/about-company/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
\par
\b\fs26 * How is the company funded? How much funding have they received?\fs24\par
\b0\fs22 61 million dollars (US) through different investor groups which include: Investors of Arize include Google Cloud Next, Foundation Capital, Battery Ventures, Technology Crossover Ventures, Trinity Ventures and 5 more.\par
(Source: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.cbinsights.com/company/arize-ai }}{\fldrslt{https://www.cbinsights.com/company/arize-ai\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
\par
\b\fs26 ## Business Activities\par
\fs24 * What specific problem is the company or project trying to solve? \b0\fs22 To provide an easy-to-use platform that helps end users with observability into company used LLMS. Reality is they make a platform that\rquote s helps users understand the LLM better through the use AI. \par
\b\fs24\par
\fs26 * Who is the company's intended customer? \b0\fs22 Is there any information about the market size of this set of customers? There is  no definitive data on the market share this company has as this is a very crowded field with a lot of competitors. Its pricing model varies from small to large teams based upon how many models the teams are handling on a monthly or annual billing period. \par
\b\fs26\par
* What solution does this company offer that their competitors do not or cannot offer? \b0\fs22 (What is the unfair advantage they utilize?)\par
Arize platform advantage is really in the UI of the platform in itself, it is designed to be a robust LLM observability platform tool that is easier to use that is not so cumbersome.\par
\par
* \b\fs26 Which technologies are they currently using, and how are they implementing them? \b0\fs22 (This may take a little bit of sleuthing&mdash;you may want to search the company\rquote s engineering blog or use sites like Stackshare to find this information.)\par
The technologies that Arize leverages include: \ldblquote From Chatgpt\rdblquote\par
\f1\bullet\tab Machine Learning and Deep Learning: \par
\bullet\tab Embedding Analysis: \par
\bullet\tab Bias Tracing and Fairness Monitoring: \par
\bullet\tab Cloud and Distributed Computing: \par
\bullet\tab Data Visualization and Dashboards: \par
\bullet\tab API Integrations and Automation: \par
\par
\b Sources:\b0\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://arize.com/blog/arize-ais-next-era-of-growth/ }}{\fldrslt{https://arize.com/blog/arize-ais-next-era-of-growth/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://techcrunch.com/2022/09/08/arize-lands-38m-to-grow-its-mlops-platform-for-the-enterprise/ }}{\fldrslt{https://techcrunch.com/2022/09/08/arize-lands-38m-to-grow-its-mlops-platform-for-the-enterprise/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://arize.com/blog/arize-ais-next-era-of-growth/ }}{\fldrslt{https://arize.com/blog/arize-ais-next-era-of-growth/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://craft.co/arize-ai }}{\fldrslt{https://craft.co/arize-ai\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
(source: Chatgpt-4.0)\par
\par
\b\fs28 ## Landscape\b0\fs22\par
* \b\fs26 What field is the company in? \b0\fs22 Machine Learning Observability\par
\par
* \b\fs26 What have been the major trends and innovations of this field over the last 5-10 years?\par
\b0\fs22 The trends I found with innovations in Machine learning Observability have been and this is from Chat GPT when I asked it is innovations in the following areas.\par
\bullet\tab Automated Monitoring and Alerts:\par
\bullet\tab Explainability and Interpretability:\par
\bullet\tab Bias Detection and Mitigation:\par
\bullet\tab Embedding and Feature Analysis:\par
\bullet\tab Integration with MLOps Pipelines:\par
\bullet\tab Real-Time and Streaming Data Support:\par
\bullet\tab Scalability and Cloud-Native Solutions:\par
\bullet\tab Enhanced Visualization and Dashboards:\par
\par
\b Sources:\b0\par
\bullet\tab  {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://techcrunch.com/2022/09/08/arize-lands-38m-to-grow-its-mlops-platform-for-the-enterprise/ }}{\fldrslt{https://techcrunch.com/2022/09/08/arize-lands-38m-to-grow-its-mlops-platform-for-the-enterprise/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\bullet\tab {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://craft.co/arize-ai }}{\fldrslt{https://craft.co/arize-ai\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\bullet\tab {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://arize.com/blog/arize-ais-next-era-of-growth/ }}{\fldrslt{https://arize.com/blog/arize-ais-next-era-of-growth/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\bullet\tab {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://techcrunch.com/2022/09/08/arize-lands-38m-to-grow-its-mlops-platform-for-the-enterprise/ }}{\fldrslt{https://techcrunch.com/2022/09/08/arize-lands-38m-to-grow-its-mlops-platform-for-the-enterprise/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\par
Which after reading this, after it is all said and done is it can be summarized as simple is make a  LLM observation platform that is easy to use, understand and can be scaled to different companies needs. While being very robust limiting Data Bias, data drift and data degradation. As MLM\lquote s and LLM\rquote s continue to grow and get even bigger and more complicated having a tool that does this with ease be very valuable.\par
\par
\b\fs26 * What are the other major companies in this field?\b0\fs22\par
In 2024 the top companies in machine learning observability services according to Tech Target "{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.techtarget.com/searchitoperations/tip/Top-observability-tools }}{\fldrslt{https://www.techtarget.com/searchitoperations/tip/Top-observability-tools\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22 " include: \par
\bullet\tab Cisco\par
\bullet\tab Datadog\par
\bullet\tab Dynatrace\par
\bullet\tab Grafana\par
\bullet\tab New Relic \par
\bullet\tab Service Now\par
\bullet\tab Splunk\par
\par
\b\fs28 ## Results\b0\fs22\par
\b\fs26 * What has been the business impact of this company so far?\b0\fs22\par
Arize is simply leveling the playing field for small \endash  medium sized companies that want to leverage the power of  LLM or MLM\rquote s. By making a more cost effective and easier to use Observability platform.\par
\par
\b\fs26 * What are some of the core metrics that companies in this field use to measure success? How is your company performing based on these metrics? \b0\fs22 Key core metrics in Observation Platform for MLM\rquote s and LLMs I feel are: Just inaccuracy alone when I researched it I found 8 key metrics \par
Accuracy: This will measure the proportion of correct predictions made by the model out of all predictions. The formula it uses is: Accuracy=Number of Correct PredictionsTotal Number of PredictionsAccuracy=Total Number of PredictionsNumber of Correct Predictions\par
\par
\par
\b Precision and Recall: \b0 Will measure true positive precision versus Predicted positives and false positives by using a very interesting formula I found on Chat GPT Precision = True Positive / (True Positive+ False Positive) \par
\par
\b F1 Score: \b0 Simply will measure precision and recall in a class distribution of a model  that is imbalance and figuring out how bad this imbalance is\f0 .\f1\par
\par
\b AUC-ROC (Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve):\b0 This measures true positives versus false positives in a particular model. \par
\par
\b Log Loss (Logarithmic Loss): \b0 Measures the performance of a specific classification model where you can measure the prediction on a probability scale between 0 and 1. The closer to 0 for it\rquote s average the better the model is preforming.\par
\par
\b Drift Metrics: \b0 Arize monitors data and model drift to ensure that changes in input data do not negatively impact model performance. Metrics such as population stability index (PSI) and KL divergence are used to quantify drift.\par
\par
\b Confusion Matrix: \b0 Provides a visual summary of prediction results on a classification problem. It shows the number of true positives, true negatives, false positives, and false negatives, helping to identify where the model is making errors.\par
Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Mean Squared Error (MSE): This is mainly used for regression models in finding how big the errors are in these regression models. While predicting future regression model errors.\par
\par
Depending on the additional tools there are many more metrics that can be used that we can definitely dive in deeper at a later time. However coming from an analyst standpoint I feel accuracy is definitely a clear and cross the board way to evaluate observability platform from one company to another.\par
\par
\b\fs26 * How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same field?\fs28\par
\b0\f0\fs22 From CBN insights "{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.cbinsights.com/company/arize-ai/alternatives-competitors }}{\fldrslt{https://www.cbinsights.com/company/arize-ai/alternatives-competitors\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 " I see Arize beats alot of it's competitors the following three areas: \par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 cost reduction\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}time to resolution\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}time saved\f1\par

\pard\par
\f0 So it really depends on the models and how complicated they  and how quickly you want to get LLM  modled out and how accurately.Outside of the above I am really not seeing a side by side comparison from Arize to its competitors far as specifci metrics.\f1\par

\pard\par
\b\fs28 ## Recommendations\fs22\par
* If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer? \b0 (This could be something that a competitor offers, or use your imagination!)\par
\par
I would recommend the following\f0 tools from Arize \f1 :\par
\bullet\tab Monitors\par
\bullet\tab Dashboards\par
\bullet\tab Eval & Performance Tracing\par
\bullet\tab Explainability & Fairness\par
\bullet\tab LLM Tracing\par
\par
\b\fs26 * Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?\fs22\par
\b0\par
Combining  these tools from Arize will really help make sure you don\rquote t get a bunch of junk that is collected through LLM\rquote s, you want to make sure it is accurate and tuned to what your company is looking for. If you have junk then when you go to sort this data in a reporting UI such as Elastic, Splunk, Azure, etc. It won\rquote t make sense and you will have people running around trying to make sense of the data which can cost time and resources. Observability Platforms are meant to make the Data more precise and tuned to what the company needs to succeed.\par
\par
\b\fs26 * What technologies would this additional product or service utilize? \b0\fs22 Observability Platform Technology still.\par
\par
\b\fs26 * Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution? \b0\fs22 It would help with  LLM  accuracy , so that we can export it into another reporting system such as Splunk or elastic  to make sense of the data in easy to understand reporting level UI\rquote s. The more accurate and better the data is compared to the competitors of a company the more advantage a company has in taking over market share. This is the new arms race the corporate world. Who has the more accurate data to get the market share they are in so that they can plan their growth strategy appropriately.\par
\f0\par
}
 